<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 André Jaenisch

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# 2024-08-27

I was on sick leave today. Nevertheless I could work a little on the game while
my kid slept. I decided to focus on the canvas to start having something to
show.

As backstory I am going to have a player awaking in a room. An old woman is
taking care of them.

This already involved me figuring out how to include animation. I remembered
that it was possible to animate SVG along a path and that in general there are
events I could react on.

The challenge was that the UI was updated on the fly. The end event didn't
bubble so I had to get creative by inlining a function that takes an
`endEvent` and wraps it in a `CustomEvent` that can bubble to the body element.

With this I can modify the path going forward (e.g. using Beziér curves).

I also need a textbox and created a new component to handle it.

Due to a lack of time I skipped writing new tests today. Getting the ideas out
of my mind felt more important.

## Today's achievement

[commit diff 534c63a62d48d9c154221130c9091a583902fb47 to 0c75b160bd2a1861de6d0de7b7e67828dd064f5b][diff]

🟥🟥🟥🟥🟩🟩 6.71 KiB / 13 KiB #js13k #js13kgames
The file is 6873 bytes (6439 bytes under the limit).

130 new bytes. Totally worth it.

### Setup

I am now experimenting how to dismiss the textbox and grant the player more
agency.

## Next step

- [ ] Have a new prompt to get up and dismiss the textbox.

### Previous in line

See journal entry from [yesterday][yesterday]

[diff]: https://code.jaenis.ch/js13kgames/js13kgames-2024/compare/534c63a62d48d9c154221130c9091a583902fb47..0c75b160bd2a1861de6d0de7b7e67828dd064f5b
[yesterday]: ./2024-08-26.md
