<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Andr칠 Jaenisch

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# 2024-09-04

Today I was cleaning up code. Mainly moving the small helper functions out into
the helper module so that I can reuse them. I figured that I can generate the
name in the event handler and pass it through to the reducer as an action
payload. Here in the event handler, I can also ensure that I have not used the
name before.

I then went on and abstracted away those specific object structures used in RDF
into factory functions. That was really useful as I wrote a new one two not
create those objects but modify them. In the tests I could create the objects
I expected easily!

To have a little progress I added a help prompt that at least gives hints on
what other commands are available. I maybe should show a textbox? I don't know.
Right now it purposefully does not do anything other than populating the
suggestions. I could even have it later be aware of what skills are known and
applicable to the current context (place, people, plans etc.).

By being able to generate RDF objects easily now, I can apply that to the
reamaining parts and then populate the whole world on the start of the level.
This should allow them to also make plans and form a social network.
From here it is about to roll the RNG and let them choose one of the strategies
to satisfy their demands. I'm eager to reach this point!

## Today's achievement

游린游린游린游린游릴游릴 7.64 KiB / 13 KiB #js13k #js13kgames
The file is 7822 bytes (5490 bytes under the limit).

That added a cost of 471 bytes. Looks okay to me.

### Setup

Add more people to the world.

## Next step

- [ ] Use RDF to describe transfer of items.

### Previous in line

See journal entry from [yesterday][yesterday]

### Next in line

See journal entry from [tomorrow][tomorrow]

[tomorrow]: ./2024-09-05.md
[yesterday]: ./2024-09-03.md
