<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 André Jaenisch

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# 2024-08-17

I was on the road the whole day so I had no quiet moment to sit down and code.
But even if I can't put my hands on a keyboard I can think. So I thought.

If 13 is the number of fear. I can play with counting. When I grew up there was
a game that reinforced learning multiplication. We called it „the evil seven”.
[Rules][rules] were like these:

- The first player starts with 1.
- Each player in turn increases the count with 1.
- When a number is divisible by 7 some other word is said instead (say fizz).
- When a number contains the digit 7 some other word is said instead (say buzz).
- When both exceptions apply, both words are combined (say fizzbuzz).
- The game ends at 100.

Yes, [Fizz Buzz][fizzbuzz] has similar rules.

Tying it back to the game: If I modulo each number with 13, I will have numbers
between 0 and 12. Subtracting the median (6) I receive a range between -6 and 6.
Applying `Math.abs()` on it yields a range between 0 and 6. So I have kind of a
sanity meter (watch out [Nintendo's patent][patent] here!).

Since I fancy SVG anyway, I would have a [`feTurbulenceFilter`][perlin] applied
to the UI to obstruct the visible part. The intention is to make the player
manipulate the environment towards a number divisible by six.

Other characters will manipulate the environment constantly themselves.

Regarding the game setting I envision the player to fill the role of a store
clerk. Lots of inventory to manage. The currency could be 🪙. There would also
be interactions with NPCs by managing the restock on a market, interacting with
people and so on. Kind of Harvest Moon?

The mood I want to carry over is that having such a mental disorder can make
your day-to-day life harder. Manageable, but you will feel exhausted quickly.
If you can make people empath there are ways that they can support you by
having an eye on your environment and manipulate in a way that they know will
make you more comfortable.

The interactions will therefore also influence hidden meters behind the scenes
to keep track of their current position. A bit like in The Sims. I recall
having played with a „memory” feature in one of my entries. Using a SVO word
oder should allow me to make some inferences from past behaviour. That will be
a nice challenge.

## Today's achievement

Nothing.

### Setup

I have the minimum parser in place. There's more work to reflect it in the
game screen.

## Next step

Think about how I want to bind the interface to the prompts.

### Codewise

- [ ] Stub out the game world

### Previous in line

See journal entry from [yesterday][yesterday]

### Next in line

See journal entry from [tomorrow][tomorrow]

[fizzbuzz]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fizz_buzz
[patent]: https://web.archive.org/web/20160607140154/http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PALL&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsrchnum.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=6935954.PN.&OS=PN/6935954&RS=PN/6935954
[perlin]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/feTurbulence
[rules]: https://www.kikisweb.de/gruppen/lernspiele/rechenspiele/sieboesesieben.htm
[tomorrow]: ./2024-08-18.md
[yesterday]: ./2024-08-16.md
