<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 André Jaenisch

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# 2024-08-13

I almost missed the start of js13kgames!
If I hadn't scrolled in my feed reader yesterday.

After learning about this year's topic, I went to the [German wikipedia][wiki]
to learn more about it. He was known for having triskaidekaphobia. I looked at
his death date and figured whether I could use his music (to some degree) in a
game. Turns out, they entered the [public domain][public] a few years ago for
most parts of the world.

Have a listen into one of his early opus: [Transfigured Night][transfigured].
I already found the [scores][score] online and will need to translate them
into something I can use (and still sound decent).

## Today's achievement

[commit diff 01c3a16b236ec7e6278485a4342bd4c67828cdf9 to 24b4d00f141828006dcc83963c44358746daca6c][diff]

I set up the boilerplate of my repo. As a change to previous years I am using
Vitest for testing this time. It has some benefits over Chai which appears to
not be maintained as much anymore (especially its ecosystem).

### Setup

It appears that the server category was dropped. So either Mobile or Desktop
as I hold no interest in Blockchain and consider WebXR over my level.

However, looking at the NPC category I read:

> The goal is to create a game that makes use of NPCs in a way that hasn't been
> seen before in most games.
>
> Non-Player Characters (NPCs) have mostly been used as side characters,
> companions, quest givers, or enemies in games. But do they have to be limited
> to these roles? Now that we have the affordances of new technologies such as
> generative AI and blockchain, we should start to re-imagine the role of NPCs
> in our games.
>
> To be considered for this challenge, your game must simply make use of NPCs.
> To win the challenge, your game must make use of NPCs in a thoughtful and
> innovative way. Subvert the traditional roles of NPCs in games and show us
> something new!

Am I the only one that reads AI and Blockchain as mere examples? I think I can
do that cheaper! I might even have an idea…

## Next step

I will spend some time pondering different ideas that are within the budget.

### Codewise

[ ] Pick an idea

### Next in line

See journal entry from [tomorrow][tomorrow]

[diff]: https://code.jaenis.ch/js13kgames/js13kgames-2024/compare/01c3a16b236ec7e6278485a4342bd4c67828cdf9..24b4d00f141828006dcc83963c44358746daca6c
[public]: https://theviolinchannel.com/arnold-schoenbergs-music-in-the-public-domain/
[score]: https://musescore.com/pprudencio/scores/6508103
[tomorrow]: ./2024-08-14.md
[transfigured]: https://schoenberg.at/index.php/en/joomla-license-3/rverklaerte-nachtl-sextett-fuer-2-violinen-2-violen-und-2-violoncelli-op-4-1899
[wiki]: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triskaidekaphobie
