<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Andr칠 Jaenisch

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# 2024-08-22

I've made great progress today! I struggled so hard with the audio handling
that I took a step back and reconsidered my approach. Instead of controlling
everything maybe there is a way to delegate the task to the browser?

Yes, there's an `<audio>` element. But how do I feed it a `src` that was not
downloaded before but instead is generated on-the-fly? With data URIs.

Okay, cool, but how do I form one? I have done this in the past with images but
never with audio. Most of the examples I found online were demonstrating how to
turn a click into a sound. But my use case was to have a melody defined a
priori and play it back. Yes, I could have turned that into an audio software
and added a binary to the game, but where's the fun in it?

I found a project that did something similar - in React. Studying its source
code led me to a code repository from 2015. It was packaged so I could add it
as a dependency and defer to Rollup to transform the CommonJS module.

It basically turned an `AudioBuffer` into a `WAV` stream. That is uncompressed
sound. The React project helped me to understand, how I have to handle my
`AudioContext` (or rather: `OfflineAudioContext`) to generate an `AudioBuffer`.

What shall I say? It worked! I'm happy!

## Today's achievement

游린游린游린游릴游릴游릴 6.08 KiB / 13 KiB #js13k #js13kgames
The file is 6226 bytes (7086 bytes under the limit).

Yes, it grew. But I'm still not even crossing half of the boundary.

### Setup

I updated the deployed version. That made me learn that the `<datalist>` is not
showing up on Firefox for Android. Glad that I catched it!

## Next step

- [ ] Have a way to show suggestions on Firefox for Android

### Previous in line

See journal entry from [yesterday][yesterday]

[yesterday]: ./2024-08-21.md
